For my final project I plan to create a small RPG style game inspired by RPG's that I grew up playing such as The Legend of Zelda, Pokemon, and Dragon Quest. Quite a few years back I used the RPG maker software to create a full length game inspired in this style, so I have some experience working with the flow and issues that can arise from creating something like this.
For the purposes of this project and timeline the game should be able to be completed in around 10 minutes at the maximum. It will have dialogue and puzzle focued gameplay, with an easy to follow story and very simple puzzles. There will be an overworld map, with perhaps 3 sub-maps for players to explore. The player will be able to move their character, talk with NPC's and interact with specific objects in the game world.
I will need to create a simple tile based map, using a combination of my Photoshop abilities and sofware that I can find online. I will also need to create, or borrow a few sprite based graphics to be used for characters and objects. I will need to learn how to create transitions to different scenes for the sub maps. I will need to learn how to link image files with the player character, NPC's and background objects. If time permits I may create a simple turn based combat system similar to the Dragon Quest, Pokemon, or something more inspired like the Undertale games. 
During the first week I will create, or source, all of the sprite graphics and the map. I will write a layout for a basic plot for how the events of the game will take place.
On the second week I will begin writing the code for character movement, interaction, and collision/transition detection. Also, connecting the sprite images to interactable objects. Finally, I will add dialogue that will appear with player interaction, with a few instances of choice based input that the player has agency over.
On the final week I will write the code for the puzzles (such as interacting with an object to collect it and bring it to another location, or NPC) as well as checking for bugs such as anywhere that the player is able to lock themselves from progressing, get stuck, or get out of bounds. I will also scam friends of mine to beta test the game in order to obtain feedback for anything that was confusing or didn't work, so that I can fix it before final release.

Day 1: Learned basic functionality of Tiled Software. Created overworld map for project with collision map. Sources tile set that is allowed for personal use. Created basic layout of html page that loads map image at correct scale and position. Found free for personal use Sprite images. Need to edit the image of the sprite animation cycles to different files for each cardinal direction.