For my final project I plan to create a small RPG style game inspired by RPG's that I grew up playing such as The Legend of Zelda, Pokemon, and Dragon Quest. Quite a few years back I used the RPG maker software to create a full length game inspired by this style, so I have some experience working with the flow and issues that can arise from creating something like this.
For the purposes of this project and timeline the game should be able to be completed in around 10 minutes at the maximum. It will have dialogue and puzzle focused gameplay, with an easy to follow story and very simple puzzles. There will be an overworld map, with perhaps 3 sub-maps for players to explore. The player will be able to move their character, talk with NPC's and interact with specific objects in the game world.
I will need to create a simple tile based map, using a combination of my Photoshop abilities and software that I can find online. I will also need to create, or borrow a few sprite based graphics to be used for characters and objects. I will need to learn how to create transitions to different scenes for the sub maps. I will need to learn how to link image files with the player character, NPC's and background objects. If time permits I may create a simple turn based combat system similar to the Dragon Quest, Pokemon, or something more inspired like the Undertale games. 
During the first week I will create, or source, all of the sprite graphics and the map. I will write a layout for a basic plot for how the events of the game will take place.
On the second week I will begin writing the code for character movement, interaction, and collision/transition detection. Also, connecting the sprite images to interactable objects. Finally, I will add dialogue that will appear with player interaction, with a few instances of choice based input that the player has agency over.
On the final week I will write the code for the puzzles (such as interacting with an object to collect it and bring it to another location, or NPC) as well as check for bugs such as anywhere that the player is able to lock themselves from progressing, get stuck, or get out of bounds. I will also scam friends of mine to beta test the game in order to obtain feedback for anything that was confusing or didn't work so that I can fix it before final submission.

Day 1: Learned basic functionality of Tiled Software. Created overworld map for project with collision map. Sources tile set that is allowed for personal use. Created basic layout of html page that loads map image at correct scale and position. Found free for personal use Sprite images. Need to edit the image of the sprite animation cycles to different files for each cardinal direction.

Day 2: Correctly sized character sprite images. P Added code to better reference adding additional images. Cropped character sprite images to only show one "frame" at a time. Placed player character in starting position on the map, and correctly scaled player sprite. Added "character movement" (by moving the background image) using WASD. Cleaned up character movement to be more accurate in reading what the last key pressed was. Cleaned up some of the original code to be more concise and easier to read/use.

Day 3: Started to implement collision with a created Array. Had many issues and ended up reverting ~3 hours of coding to a previous state.

Day 4: Attempting to solve an array issue with collision detection. Might not be able to create an array to handle all collisions, and will have to use a more messy method of adding each moveable object to the movement function one by one.
Have done most of the foundational work such as making a controllable player character, jump function, collectible items, moving enemies, basic obstacles.
Need to refine jump to not be spammable.
Need to add win/loss screen.
Need to add scrolling function to continue level until an end point.
(filled with obstacles, enemies, collectibles)
Considering frame animation, will need to find new sprites if so.

Day 5: Decided to have different levels rather than a scrolling screen. Did basic sprite animations for the player character. Platforms can't be jumped through from under. W can be held when jumping to fall through boxes, but as a pleasant surprise I decided this was good and kept it as is rather than fix it. There are still a few things that could be changed, such as cleaning up the code to not need so many variables, and adding verticle hitboxes to the sides of the platforms. For some reason I was struggling with this and am already pretty burned out on this project after restarting from scratch, so I'm calling it "good enough."

I do not know enough of the vocabulary and tools of javascript, or p5. I had many difficulties looking up how to do things, converting it to work within p5, and then applying it for my specific use case. In my first attempt at the project I eventually got to a point where I could not find any way to continue with my frankenstein code. I would have had to completely rewrite all of the movement, collisions, and character sprite animations that I spent around 15+ hours on researching and troubleshooting to work. It would have been going down an infinite rabbit hole of trying to get things to work in a way that I can actually understand. I don't think I would have been able to finish the project before the dead line.
Despite the mess I can understand what is happening in the second project, which makes trouble shooting much easier. It could be rewritten to be more efficient, but that seems irrelevant because the program functions (mostly) as intended. 